Over the years, I haven't follow developments related to boxplots very
closely, so I'm glad that you have reviewed them.  Among the ones that
I knew about, some seem to have more merit than others.  My comments
focus more on the basic boxplot.

I would be surprised if JWT was not aware of the range-bar, but I
don't recall any reference to it in the early development of the
box-and-whiskers plot.

The box-and-whiskers plot arose as a way to display the 5-number
summary, in which the five numbers were chosen mainly because they
could fairly easily be found by hand (e.g., in a stem-and-leaf
display): the largest and smallest values, the median, and the hinges.
 The resistance (rather than robustness) of the median and hinges was
a consideration, but not enough to support "carefully chosen."

In addition to the fences that you mention (better known in EDA as the
inner fences), The 1977 book also introduced "outer fences," at 3
times the fourth-spread beyond the fourths.  The 1970 limited
preliminary edition used "side values" and "three-halves values," at
1.0 and 1.5 times the fourth-spread, but those flagged too many data
values.

My impression is that, in EDA at least, the extremes are the largest
and smallest data values in the batch.  It introduces confusion to
define "extremes" in some other way.  What's more, Figure 1 labels the
ends of the whiskers as "lower extreme" and "upper extreme," whereas
the list on page 2 (correctly) calls them "adjacent."  I'm hardly
impartial, but I regard the book Understanding Robust and Exploratory
Data Analysis (Hoaglin, Mosteller, and Tukey, eds., Wiley, 1983) as
authoritative on EDA terminology and techniques.  Chapter 3, by John
D. Emerson and Judith Strenio, is entitled "Boxplots and Batch
Comparison."

It's preferable to refer to data values that are outside the (inner)
fences (and hence shown individually) as "outside values," rather than
"outliers."  JWT was well aware that those fences would flag many
values in samples of well-behaved data that would not qualify as
"outliers."  The idea is to investigate any outside values (if
possible) before deciding to call them "outliers."  Boris Iglewicz,
JWT, and I studied the small-sample performance of the
outlier-labeling rule based on the fences (Hoaglin, Iglewicz, and
Tukey, 1986, JASA 81:991-999), and Boris and I did some further work
on what constant to use in place of 1.5 when one wants to use that
type of rule for outlier detection (Hoaglin and Iglewicz, 1987, JASA
82:1147-1149).

The variations in what to show at the ends of the boxplot are an
unfortunate source of confusion.  Because of the absence of
standardization, when I look at a boxplot, I can't necessarily be sure
of what I'm seeing.

In the paragraph at the bottom of page 3, I'm not sure how a "rank
function" is defined.

In the last line on page 3, the date of Tufte's book is 1983, not
2001.  With 2001 instead of 1983, the date of Stock and Behrens at the
top of page 4 doesn't make sense.  Also in that line, Tufte's book
says "quartile plot," rather than "midgap plot."

On page 4, in the paragraph that begins after Figure 2, don't you mean
"there is NO visual display" at the end of the first line?

In the third line of that paragraph, "McGill and Larsen" should be
"McGill, Tukey and Larsen".

Shouldn't that paragraph refer to Figure 3?

At the bottom of page 4, I don't see the point of estimating the
length of the whiskers.  I don't recall ever trying to do that from a
boxplot, and I would not encourage anyone to do it.  I need to read
the paper by Behrens et al.

Section 3, line 2: Does every statistician now have a computer on
their desk?  Maybe it's on their lap or in their pocket!  Omitting "on
their desk" will keep the paper from becoming dated too quickly.

It seems too strong to talk about "the failure to display
multi-modality."  The boxplot was not intended for that purpose, which
a stem-and-leaf display or a histogram often handles well.  It may not
be a gain to burden the boxplot with "refinements" aimed at that and
other uses.

I need to look at the 1986 JASA paper by Hoaglin et al. and consider
whether the number of "outside values" is actually excessive when n is
large.

Page 5, line -5: Should "rug that" be "rug"?

Page 6, top: "Johnson curves" belong to more than one family.  To
which family (or families) do these belong?

Page 6, line 7: "leptikurtic" should be "leptokurtic".  Also in the
caption of Figure 4.

Page 7, line 2:  I don't recall seeing the fifth moment called
"tailings" (I have seen it for mine waste).  Do you happen to know who
introduced that term?

Page 7, 2 lines above Figure 6: "extremes"

In the caption for Figure 6, you could refer to "the fourth
distribution" as "the mm distribution" (especially since "fourth" is
used with a different meaning earlier).  Also in the caption for
Figure 7.

Page 8, line -2: "eigths" should be "eighths".

Page 8, line -1: Should "smaller box" be "narrower box"?

Section 4, line 2: "2d dimensions" should be "2 dimensions".

Section 4, line 3 has "extremes", and "becomes" should be "become".

Page 9, line -9: I'm not sure that I understand the meaning of "residuals".

Page 10, line 4: "follows" should be "follow".

Page 10, line -4: Remove comma after "Figure 10".

Page 11, 3 lines above Figure 11: Insert a comma after "carefully" and
remove "while".

Page 11, line -4: change "take the ideas ... and extend them" to
"extend the ideas ...".

Page 12, para 2, line 3: Insert a comma after "guidance".

Page 12, para 3, line 1: Remove the comma after "past".

Page 12, line -4: I didn't find "Jochen Einbeck and Wand, 2010" in the
references.

Page 12, line -1: See my earlier comment on "mid-gap".

Page 13: For Becketti and Gould, change "pages 149-149" to the correct
volume and page numbers.

Page 15: Add page numbers to reference for Jackson.

Page 15, line -7: Change "T. J. W. McGill, R. and W. Larsen" to "R.
McGill, J. W. Tukey, and W. A. Larsen"

Page 15, line -4: "Kniss2"?

Page 16: For Tukey 1970, it would be more accurate to say "limited
preliminary edition, volume 1"

Page 17, line 2: Page numbers are 247-263.

Another early reference: J. W. Tukey (1972). Some graphic and
semigraphic displays.  In T. A. Bancroft (ed.), Statistical Papers in
Honor of George W. Snedecor.  Ames, IA: The Iowa State University
Press, pp. 293-316.

That's all!  Many of my comments are about picky little details, but
some are more substantive.  I hope they are useful.

Regards,

David